doc: initial RapidCheck property-based testing documentation (#16645)
bitcoin/bitcoin: doc/rapidcheck.md

# RapidCheck property-based testing for Bitcoin Core

## Concept

Property-based testing is experimentally being added to Bitcoin Core with
[RapidCheck](https://github.com/emil-e/rapidcheck), a C++ framework for
property-based testing inspired by the Haskell library
[QuickCheck](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/QuickCheck).

RapidCheck performs random testing of program properties. A specification of the
program is given in the form of properties which functions should satisfy, and
RapidCheck tests that the properties hold in a large number of randomly
generated cases.

If an exception is found, RapidCheck tries to find the smallest case, for some
definition of smallest, for which the property is still false and displays it as
a counter-example. For example, if the input is an integer, RapidCheck tries to
find the smallest integer for which the property is false.

## Running

> Once RapidCheck is installed correctly, Bitcoin Core will automatically run the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If RapidCheck is installed, Bitcoin Core will automatically run the
```

Author: Done

property-based tests with the unit tests during `make check`, unless the
`--without-rapidcheck` flag is passed when configuring.

For more information, run `./configure --help` and see `--with-rapidcheck` under

> "Optional Packages".

Reviewer: I don't think this needs to be quoted.

Author: Done

## Setup

> The following instructions have been tested with Linux Debian 4.19/GCC 8.3 and

Reviewer: Can you drop the all the version numbers from here.

Author: Done

macOS 10.14.6/AppleClang 10.

> 1. Ensure cmake is installed with `apt-get install cmake` on Linux or `brew

Reviewer: Instead of `1.`, with OS specific install instructions, you could add a "requires CMake" note to `3.`.

Author: Done

   install cmake` on macOS.

2. Clone the RapidCheck source code and cd into the repository.

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/emil-e/rapidcheck.git
    cd rapidcheck
    ```

3. Build RapidCheck.

    ```shell
    cmake -DCMAKE_POSITION_INDEPENDENT_CODE:BOOL=true -DRC_ENABLE_BOOST_TEST=ON $(pwd)
    make && make install
    ```

    You should see:

    ```shell

>     -- The CXX compiler identification is <GNU/AppleClang/etc x.y.z>

Reviewer: I don't think we need all of this build output here.

Author: I think you're right. The build output was helpful for me in debugging my CMake command but it is resolved now.

# RapidCheck property-based testing for Bitcoin Core

## Concept

Property-based testing is experimentally being added to Bitcoin Core with
[RapidCheck](https://github.com/emil-e/rapidcheck), a C++ framework for
property-based testing inspired by the Haskell library
[QuickCheck](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/QuickCheck).

RapidCheck performs random testing of program properties. A specification of the
program is given in the form of properties which functions should satisfy, and
RapidCheck tests that the properties hold in a large number of randomly
generated cases.

If an exception is found, RapidCheck tries to find the smallest case, for some
definition of smallest, for which the property is still false and displays it as
a counter-example. For example, if the input is an integer, RapidCheck tries to
find the smallest integer for which the property is false.

## Running

> If RapidCheck is installed, Bitcoin Core will automatically run the

Reviewer 2: Do we want to run these by default? This forces everyone to install rapidcheck. I think that is reasonable when we have a pre-configured way to easily install rapidcheck. AFAIK this isn't this case, unless I missed a PR.

Author: Currently, RapidCheck is auto-configured only if librapidcheck.a is detected, which IIUC doesn't force anyone to install it. I think this is outside the scope of the doc which addresses the current situation. FWIW I'm working on updating the RapidCheck Makefile to maybe/hopefully autobuild cleanly and can update this doc in that PR if needed.

Author: (Rapidcheck auto-configure as seen in configure.ac:L134-138 and 1280-1292)

Thanks for reviewing!
